---
tags: [Courses]
title: 'Session 2: Node Package Manager'
created: '2023-02-16T13:27:56.948Z'
modified: '2023-02-16T13:33:16.001Z'
---

# Session 2: Node Package Manager

Node Package Manager (NPM) is the package manager for Node.js. It is used to install, manage, and share Node.js packages. In this session, we will explore NPM and its uses, as well as how to install packages locally and globally and manage dependencies with package.json.

## Introduction to NPM
NPM is a command-line tool that allows developers to access and share packages, and it is bundled with Node.js. It enables the installation of packages from a central registry and the creation of local packages. NPM also handles versioning and dependency management.

## Installing Packages Locally and Globally
To install a package locally, navigate to the directory where the project is stored and run the following command in the terminal:

```js
npm install package-name
```

This will download the package and add it to the `node_modules` folder in the project directory.

To install a package globally, run the following command:

```js
npm install -g package-name
```
This will download the package and make it available for use in any project on your computer.

## Managing Dependencies with package.json
The `package.json` file is used to manage dependencies for a project. It lists all the packages that the project depends on, along with the version numbers. This file can be generated by running the following command in the project directory:
```js
npm init
```
To install a package and add it to the `package.json` file, run the following command:
```js
npm install package-name --save
```

This will install the package and add it to the dependencies section of the `package.json` file.

To install a package as a development dependency, run the following command:
```js
npm install package-name --save-dev
```

This will install the package and add it to the devDependencies section of the `package.json` file.

In summary, NPM is a powerful tool for managing packages and dependencies in Node.js projects. It is essential to learn how to use it effectively to build scalable and robust applications.







